PROJECT WORK  Guidelines



Project Based Learning is the application of the comprehensive methodology to inculcate the spirit of strategizing industry operations in a real-time environment.

The project work aims to foster students with an opportunity to develop conceptual, analytical, communication and interpersonal skills.

Selection of Project work Topic
The choice of topic for the project work and the approach to be adopted needs to be based on the field of specialization.
It is important to distinguish between ‘project work topic’ and ‘project work title’. The topic is the specific area that you wish to investigate. The title may not be decided until the project work has been written so as to reflect its content properly.

The project topic should conform to the following
Relevant to business or technology, defined broadly;
Related to one or more of the subjects or areas of study within the core program and specialization;
Clearly focused so as to facilitate in-depth study, subject to the availability of adequate sources of information and to your own knowledge;
Of value and interest to you and your personal and professional development.

Planning the Project work
Selecting an original and relevant topic for investigation.
Establishing the precise focus of your study by deciding on the aims and objectives of the project work, formulating questions to be investigated, deciding the sampling techniques and statistical techniques to sum up the findings of the study. Consider very carefully what is worth investigating and its feasibility.
Drawing up initial project work outlines considering the aims and objectives of the project work. Workout various stages of project work

Important instructions and information on Project Submission
The title of the project should not be more than 12 words in length. The complete Project Work should be submitted in 15000-30000 words. You are supposed to submit project work along with an extended abstract and project guide resume simultaneously.
You must be careful about Originality and Relevance of Project Topic to avoid Project Rejection at a later stage. Therefore, you are required to submit a plagiarism report acknowledging 85% originality
Project Guide must be Post Graduate with a minimum of 10 years of work experience Ensure to include signed & scanned copies of following essential certificates
From Project Guide Certifying bonafides of project work carried out under hisher supervision
From a student Certifying that submitted project work is an original piece of work and has not been submitted earlier
You will receive an intimation through a registered email address, on successful uploading of project work report
Viva Questions will be accessible after uploading Project Work.
Project submission will be accepted only after the Project file is uploaded and Viva questions are answered Generally, it takes four to six weeks to complete the process of evaluation of project work.

Writing the Project Work

The abstract for 500-1000 words
An abstract is an overview or a brief summary of project work, which helps the reader to ascertain the purpose of carrying the project work. It acts as a stand-alone entity for the complete project work.
The study hypotheses(null or alternative hypotheses, if applicable)
Literature Review
Literature review(secondary sources) is the evaluation of substantive findings and theoretical and methodological contribution to a particular topic. It is a critical analysis of the previous research conducted in a particular area.
Research methodology adopted
Research methodology is the implementation of methods or techniques to efficiently solve a research problem, which helps the reader to assess the validity and reliability of the study.
Research methodology constitutes of
Research Design Descriptive, Conclusive, Causal or Exploratory Sampling Technique Probability or Non-Probability
Data Collection Tools used for data collection( for eg questionnaire, survey, etc) Data Preparation Classification and Tabulation of data
Data Analysis Hypotheses Testing
Results(theoretical or empirical)
The findings of the study are to be summarized as
Data interpretation Interpret and elaborate findings of the research Recommendation Suggestions based on critical analysis of the results
Implications of theory and practice
The total size of the project document should not exceed 2MB. Portable document format (.pdf) only.
Figures,	graphs.	Tables,	Appendices	and	References	should	follow	the	American Psychological Association (APA) Style guide, 7th edition.
Mention the sources of any images, tables, figures cited or presented
Include a page header known as “running head at the top of every page
Use Font Times New Roman; Font size 12; Double-spaced; 1-inch (2.5cm) margin all around
Use American spellings( ‘program’ not ‘programme’; ‘center’ and not ‘centre’
Use “z” spellings instead of “s” spellings(recognize, organize, summarize)

Project Submission

Complete Project submission includes three stages
Abstract along with Guide Resume
Project Report Submission along with Plagiarism Report
Answer Viva Questions