Major project live class 1 transcript containing instructions on how to do the major project

Okay. So, welcome you all to this uh first session for this uh course of major project. Right. Uh so what I will be discussing uh in the live sessions for this particular course is um how to handle uh the projects that you'll be submitting for your um you know BCA program right u so probably uh second or third third or fourth session onwards I will uh third session onwards rather I will be demonstrating some of the projects as as well that will help you u understand that how to create the projects right for the final submissions.
uh but this particular session that is for today uh it's just a guideline on uh how to approach a project uh and uh what are the key parameters that you need to consider before taking up the project and uh and in a nutshell you know uh what all is required to be in the report that you will be submitting as a final submission right so u before I proceed any questions that you have regard ing the major project that you would like to discuss.
Anyone has a question?
Uh okay. So I can see there are 62
students. So what is the project?
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Let me just one second. Uh so in case you want to speak out on that uh you can always turn on your microphones. Now which topic will be the project will be on say I'm going to talk on this just wait for a few minutes.
So okay first of all uh whenever you log into your LMS right you will find there are two uh documents these are these are the documents uh designed to provide you the guidelines on how the project report has to be created what all sections has to be there what is the criteria for the supervisor or the guide for your project everything is there on the LMS right so there are the two documents that you need to thor thoroughly read in order to start with the project. So that's very important. So if you have not done that so far, so I I would I would really want you all to log into your LMS and download the project guideline PDF that's mentioned over the LMS and go through these the two documents there.
uh that will help you understand how to uh start with the project and then what is a uh requirement to create the project report.
Okay.
So Simbra say for a guide resume we have to take that as 10 years of experience resumeum is it okay if the guide is not postgraduate? Yes, absolutely.
Absolutely. That's that's uh that's okay. If the guide is um having a 10
years of experience and that the guide is skilled in that particular technology in which you are creating the project,
that's absolutely fine.
Uh no, the project guide is someone that you need to find yourself. University will not assign any of the supervisor to you. So you need to explore, you need to find out uh the project supervisors are we making a file or a web pack or stuff? Namita I will answer your question shortly.
So okay so this is a very important qu question. So most of the students ask this that how they will find a guide right.
Uh so best and the easy way to find a guide is to uh try to explore your uh peers right maybe uh in your circle in your friend circle maybe in your family you might have someone uh who can be your project supervisor. Now in case you are unable to do that uh you can uh maybe write a email uh to the university professors around by checking the relevant websites. you will find their email addresses and then you can send them email that uh uh maybe you are interested in doing the project under their supervision and this is a project or this is a skill that you have maybe you can attach a resumeum and then I think um uh that's a second way of approaching the guide so but but before doing that I think you should have that template ready with the cover letter with your resume that um so that they can have a look that okay this is you're assuming this is your skill set and then you would be needing a project under their supervision. Uh so third uh way of approaching the supervisor is also by exploring the their LinkedIn profile. So you can approach them over the LinkedIn and then uh you can send them a message that you know you want you're looking for a supervisor this is what you are doing with uh a matey and then these are your skill sets again you a short message you can draft it before and then send it whenever you require right so that's another way of uh approaching your supervisor so by the way uh it is also for the information that um it is not that they will not respond. They can they can respond and they they they also have the necessity of having the students being u um supervised, right? Uh because more students maybe taking up the project under them uh is like they it gives a uh maybe a kind of a credits to their uh resumeuming right. So they the faculty out there is also looking for good students who can do some interesting projects right. So uh this is this these are the couple of ways by which you can uh you know approach and uh find out the supervisor but one thing is very clear that this exercise is something that you need to do by your own right um I mean uh will not provide you the supervisors.
All right, I hope this answers the question
Arin I just summarized how you can approach to a guide. Okay, maybe you can look for the universities near your location. You can approach the faculties there by looking at their profiles. You can find those faculties even on the
LinkedIn, right? And then write an email to them. So this is the this is the one of the way to approach that.
No. So um so whenever you are submitting the report right there has to be a letter coming up from the supervisor that uh the the student has worked under my supervision and this is this is a project that the student has created.
So, so that certificate should have all the details and with a signature from the supervisor along with the designation. So, this is a certificate that you will be attaching uh in your report. So, that is required and I guess this is a certificate that will be uh asked uh as a separate attachment also when you will be submitting your project.
Okay.
Okay. So one thing uh so one thing very important students before I start with this presentation is that um project is something which all the students I guess should take it very very seriously because a good project uh adds u you know a kind of a benefit over to your uh resumeum right so if you have done a good project if the results are good if the problem that you of salt is is u quite good enough then it will it will be your benefit only right so a project is something that I think all of you should take it very very seriously so that you make a good project right and um that ultimately is going to contribute um in um landing you probably u in a good job so project is something which is very much important to be considered seriously
Right.
Yeah. There would be mocks the projects whatever you will be submitting they will be they will be evaluated.
Okay.
Yeah. Yeah. And that's absolutely right.
Teaching profile or industry expert both are both are um okay as a supervisor.
There will be marks allocated to the project. That's right. Now let's uh I I will pick up your questions. I mean you can keep on posting that over the chat.
Right. I will u pick up the questions in between.
Okay.
and let me know when you want to uh you know want to use your microphone in order to ask the question so I will enable that okay so the certificate template everything is available over the LMS you will find it there okay so let's f let's you know understand first of all how to uh approach a project how to uh find uh uh find a project right. So there uh in order to find a projects right so there are couple of steps that you need to consider. The first and a very important subject uh step is to uh identify what problem uh you are aiming to solve.
So and um uh which basically will come from the area that is of your interest like uh there may be some many students present here who wants to uh do something or they have an interest in web development or a uh app based project right so um so this is the this is something that interests you so you want to create an app. Now in order to create an app,
you want a problem, right? A problem for which you will find give a solution using an app. Like for example, uh suppose you want to create an app which can in which the user uploads certain images and that particular app summarizes that images right just like a captions.
So uh now this is what is the problem.
So problem is that your project will have um a data set which would consist of images and then um and the background there would be some AI based model which will pick up these images will which which will understand what is there in an image right and then uh as a result it will give summarization of two three lines at what the model is seeing in the image.
and then that result gives is given back to the user. So this is the project that you want to do. Now in this particular project uh there there are many objectives first of all that you need to uh list out. The first objective would be that you are working on a say for example a
AI based project where the input data is images right and the second contribution that you will be making is that your project will uh understand what kind of an image is being uploaded and then automatically summarization would be provided. So these are the some of the contribution that you are uh going to make with this project right. So these will become your contribution and what problem you are solving. The problem is that you are going to create a system a software which can understand the images and then make an automatic summarization of the images. Right? And then to deploy this particular project at the end you will make an app right which could be using any of the uh software support and then um this is what what is the project. So in this particular project if this is your idea so the interest is clear the interest is that uh as a user you want to create an app uh the problem is clear that you want to create a
app that can scan the images and then summarize what is there in that right so that's the problem and third is that you have to list out all the contribution that the project is going to make right so contribution has to be listed again right so this is what is an uh I would say the approach to handle a project so not every student present here would be interested in doing web development right not every student would be interested in developing an app that's fine so you might have a different kind of an interest would be that maybe some of the students here has an interest in um like for example hersa she has an interest in UI and UX Right?
So of course why not? So that's an interest pick up a problem in that particular area and then first of all in your take a notebook right take a copy and a pen and a list down what kind of a problems that you will be addressing in your project and then map those problems to a solution right and then once you map those problem to a solution that will become your contributions right so
Identification of a problem is very very important when you are doing your project. It's not something random that you select that okay I will do this. No you you in your project are going to solve some problem right. So for in order to solve that particular problem there it has to be mapped to an appropriate solution right those solution could be uh technical right those can be solved using technology like for example uh in the example that I just gave in the start that suppose I want to create an app that is um can scan the images and automatically looks what is there in the images and then make a summarization suppose This is a project. Now in this particular project, what kind of a technology do you think that we will be using? We will be using so many technologies. We will be using machine learning. We could be using uh development of an app, right? Um so so you will be using some kind of a like um the languages by which we can develop an apps. You can you might be using Python to create uh uh this machine learning models, right? So there are so many different kind of a technology that you'll or also you might be using a cloud as well to deploy your the uh this uh app that you have developed right so the so these would be the different kind of a technology. So the idea is first list down the problems, map those to a solution and then it will give you the contribution and from there you should start. But before even identifying a problem, it's very important to narrow down your interest that this is an interesting technology in which you want to work.
Right?
Okay. So, let me So, I hope this all is okay for now.
Okay. Okay. So I guess you all the three pointers is all okay with you all and you understand them thoroughly. So I explained what is it means by identifying a problem choosing a topic conducting a research. So research means understanding what others has done uh in that particular area and how how how can you improve that model or do you have another solution to address that problem. So this is uh basically the three pointers that you um see on the screen. Right now going next is um I I just explained you this that project scope is something that you need to define. You need to have a project plan. Project plan means step-by-step milestones at how you're going to approach those uh problems that you have been object identified as uh the problems right and then selecting of course the right technology and tools that's very very important right so this is all about preparing uh the um preparing for the project right okay then finally once the project has been created of course you will do a lot of iteration to understand if the results are coming as per the requirement or not. Right? And also uh you know you need to iterate this process n number of times to make your results stable.
Right? So there that is more like a development cycle that you will be doing a lot of iterations when you will be finally developing that. But then the most uh crucial part uh in the project um is the identification of the problem.
practice something um something new right something which has not been done in the past or something which is done in the past but then it needs a several kind of an improvement so identification of a project is the most critical part and believe that once you identify that this is the problem that you will be solving then mapping that to a solution is even even easier and then developing that nowadays is even easier right so uh the first key thing that you need to remember is to uh identification of a project is something identification of the problem is something that is very important for you to identify right so I will just uh wait here I just included this test before now we'll take few couple of questions I think you posted them uh so Sunil Kumar so ma'am for an app we can submit the code Yes. So, okay. So,
there are two ways to approach this. So,
in case you are developing uh say for example an app, right? So, uh it may have a lot of coding involved, right? So you can give a screenshot or you can add some um highle code to your project report and the rest of the code for the rest of the code you can also provide the uh maybe say for example Google drive link or you can also provide the
GitHub link whatever is easier for you.
Uh so it's not required that you've put in all the code in your project reports.
That's not the case. You don't need to over overfill all your report with the code. That's not required. But yes the screenshots some important codes that you think that okay this is the main thing that you want to showcase then you can put that over the project report and then rest everything can be directed to a link wherein you can uh put all the codes or any other documentation related to your project report. So so that's that's an easy way in which you can uh create your project right.
Okay. So, so the next question that I can see is though ma'am can we do two projects or only one? So I think one project is more than enough to be uh done and submitted right. So you don't need to do two sub two two projects.
Uh Arian, yes of course you can make an
AI based project of course yes.
Now Himachi this is a very good question that you have asked like u is it required to find the guide first or then start or a project or a make a project first and then find a guide that's a very good question. So now um see um first of all uh since I mentioned that it's very important for you to identify u the problem the area remember the guide is not going to give you probably the problem to solve the problem is not something which is u which the pro which the guide will uh give you and then you will solve it. No, it doesn't work like this right to a guide you have to approach with a um problems that okay I see this problem it needs a solution this problem it needs a solution then maybe the guide has as per the experiences he may share that okay this problems looks interesting let's work on this or maybe this are the quite an um you know old problems and they already have a good solutions to it so probably we need to find much more uh richer problem or maybe there's a problem which the guide says that okay we can improve it right so it's basically um you need to do your homework first homework means that you need to identify the problem you need to identify the area you're interested in and based on that you can contact uh the uh supervisors or the guides it also means that you have a a kind of a document ready with you a document a draft which uh which you can send across to the supervisor saying that okay see sir or ma'am I have uh I'm interested in this particular area and this is my these are my proposed projects which which can be done under your supervision something like that right so the this also gives a positive impact on your um submission that you seems to be a serious students and then you will will try to finish this of the project. But remember uh you have to do your own homework in order to contact to a supervisor first. That's important,
right?
So but but if you see that you have to you will wait for a supervisor first and then you will start it it may take a long long time or you probably end up finding nothing. Right? So it's a very very good idea and this is the way it should be followed actually whenever you are contacting a supervisor along with your CV along with your skill sets you also enclose a document stating that these are the problems that you would uh like to address or these are the your interest area these are your skills so you showcase everything which is important for a supervisor to know about you okay okay so let Let me check up the question. I hope that answers him.
Shares, ma'am, I have a doubt regarding the project. Do we only need to submit the theoretical project report or do we have to develop or deploy hosting the project practically? Will both be evaluated or how will it be verification that be done? So Shares uh uh see we uh what we look for um in your submission is the uh the actual product right the product that you have created the product which showcase that a solution has been solved. So that product could be in the form of app. That product could be in the form of um maybe a software. That product could be in the form of any AI based project which can indicate that okay this is the performance that the model is giving. So we we look for the end results that you stated certain problems you you applied a solution and then you're able to present some results. So this is a very important thing. So uh but then um uh your project report has to be combination of both.
You should be presenting in your report the uh theoretical part. Theoretical part means that uh what is this problem or project all about? What is the tool and technologies that you are using? So you will summarize everything related to your project. Along with that you will put some screenshots, you will put some codes, you will uh put the data set that you have used, right? So you will get give every information required for your project into a project report. Then as I was explaining earlier, you don't need to uh flood up your this um project report with lot of quotes. That's not required.
You can put some navigate some of the codes over to a over to a web link wherein you can store all the necessary details. Okay.
Arian your question is ma'am project can make practical app and theory based project or can we make both of these so you should make both of these yes can you discuss the points which might disqualify the PCA final project okay that's a good question so so I can tell you as per my um uh experience when I evaluate the projects uh most of the evaluation which are directly disqualified are the one that are being directly being taken up uh using the AI tools. So this uh this is something that can we can we can easily identify that okay this is something that has been written this has been done using an AI tool. So this is something which which can easily been observed and that is the first level of this qualification.
So having said that it doesn't mean that you are you cannot take u assistance of the AI tool in order to make your problem problem in order to address your problem. I'm not saying that you can take it right but don't directly take the take up the content create the report in say for example the AI tool and then forward it put in your uh I would say reframe it as per um your requirement your understanding reframing the document is important right but if you take up a um help of an AI tool in coding in um maybe writing a code or maybe analysis of the results or crafting your data sets or maybe identification of a problem for which you take an AI tool that's that's absolutely fine but then if if it's just you know you take it take a report from there and then you submit it here this is something that we can easily find it out so once you once you try to reframe your project that's very important so whatever your writing has to be your thought not a content directly being created by so that's a first level of disqualification that's what something uh we as a evaluator look for the second is um second and a very important is for the projects that are that has nothing u uh new and no to solve right um I have seen uh the projects being submitted by the
DCS students which does for example uh prediction problem which are very very common and it's been um a lot of uh
I mean it has been ages we are solving and then we have also have a successful results of that but then students are still picking up those problems like I will give you an example like predicting the stock market right so this is the problem that the students solve over the project so this this is these are the projects which are ready available on
GitHub these are the projects that um it's doesn't makes any sense right now to not to work on these kind of a projects. So um so these are something which are easily available over the websites. we can easily find it out right okay this is a project you picked up from there and then you're uh uploading as a as your project here for the final submission for a BCA project submission right so this also is a uh has a great chance such kind of a project also has a great chance for u thisqualification third sometimes um uh we have also experienced that the students uh do not follow uh the exact template or the format of the project report as been uh being shared to them over LMS. So there is a standard format uh that is expected for the students to follow but then students um do not follow it. So they make make up their own templates. Right?
So that's again a indication that this particular project has to be disqualified right away without even going into depth. Other reasons for disqualification maybe for example the plagiarism is very very high. So it's not your content you just took it from somewhere. So plagiarism if it's I think greater than which threshold I do not remember at the moment. But then if it's greater than that again that's a disqualification.
If your project report is not supported with a a document from the supervisor,
right, uh which um states that the student has worked under me, a certificate that gives his signature with the date and a designation. If that is missing for the from the report, then again it calls for a disqualification for the submission that you have made.
Right?
Whose question was that? Boston did I answer all your questions? Did I answer your question? Was there any timeline for the project? Yes.
Yes, there is a timeline also. So I think on the LMS you would be getting up uh the deadline for the uh submission,
right? So there is a deadline rail abi right. So um so as far as the experience is concerned regarding the guide I think uh this is more towards the skill like some for example uh some of the guides probably may have a six to seven years of experience but then the technology that they are working on is the is the is the is the technology or the emerging technology that they are working on like maybe if you talk about
AI or cloud computing then I think it can still be considered. If that technology is something which is not is being used now or which is not in demand then probably um uh that experience will not be counted.
What exactly will be the guide role?
Very good. Important question. The guide will uh u maybe the guide can tell you how to mold your problem,
how to make your project better, how can uh how to how to write or reframe the problems or uh most importantly I can tell you that uh which technology and tools is the right one to pick up to address your problem. So these are the various roles of a supervisor. Supervisor may not help you in the code. Supervisor may not help you in writing your project report. It may not he or she may not be helpful in giving you or uh doing experimentation on your behalf. But the important pointers like identification of a problem, reframing the problem, finding a proper solution to the problem which experience can tell that okay this will work, this will not work. So this all comes from the uh role of a supervisor, right?
Where can we find the supervisor? Anik I just answered that question just I think the first question I asked I answered was this question.
No Rahul it is not okay. So this this is also one of the pointer. So in case uh there are couple of students who who who are doing the same project then again it's a disqualification. So you two students cannot do the same project.
So Arin I just I'm just reading out your message. So in that case you have to choose your project which uh which is more into this uh expertise of with this expertise of uh sales right uh because if it all that your project doesn't lies here in this particular domain then um I think there is no point of getting the supervisor right still how to search a guide from the
LinkedIn based on the guide's experience.
Oh, why not? You can um so like um uh so like you want to work in AI, right?
So um and you are in the city X. So why don't you explore the universities around the city X or nearby city X,
right? explore those universities, go to their websites, find the professors who uh or the associate professors who are working in that particular area. So that if their professor or associate professor, they're automatically having going to have an experience more than 10
years, right? So this is a way you can do that or maybe on the LinkedIn profile
I think they summarize what what they are uh you know what kind of an experience they have. So maybe if you go by their experience profile wise,
LinkedIn has everything. So based on that you can calculate that okay it has
10 years or 5 years experience but then if it is a five years experience that's the most relevant one because they're working on the emerging technologies like maybe uh agents or agentic or machine learning deep learning. They are all in kind of a technology that are worthy to be considered as an project, right?
You cannot make the project team.
How is the grading done ma'am? Grading is done uh manually. So it's not an automatic grading that we we are the faculty and more faculties thoroughly go through your project reports and then evaluate them. So it's not an AI tool which is going to evaluate your projects.
Why no one is going to give you a signature? That doesn't happen. I'm telling you beforehand that um the faculties look for um the students who can do the projects because that is also like um benefit a faculty is going to have if you do a project under them right okay Vasim yes mostly does that mean the project can be created via the help of
AI but the documentation report should be AI assisted but mostly um not completely this is something that I
I tried addressing while I was answering your question so uh so you can uh take the um AI assistance even in uh identification of the problems that's no problem, right? But then you can but the idea of understanding that this is a problem to be solved, right? This is a problem that has not been solved in the past or this is a problem that can still be improved.
That judgment should be yours, right? It it should not be the AI model, right? So that judge judgment only human beings can make that okay, this is not a new problem. This is a old problem. This is a problem which needs improvement. So that judgment has to come from you because you are leading the project not the AI model. Right? Otherwise you can take a help from AI model that is no problem. Maybe in writing the report or maybe uh creating some interesting problems or solutions. So everything can be done right. But then at the end it has to be your judgment right. A human understanding has to be required. A reframing is required that okay this is not something that I was looking for model is saying something else you are saying something else then this is a mismatch a devop engineers is a good role you can take up this supervisor you cannot do it in a or if not seeing 10 years experience will they have checked uh I have checked this several number of times uh and then again I'm answering the same same uh thing that if the experience is relevant if the experience is in the emerging technology technologies which we which which are which nowadays are very very important to learn and to um have an hands-on on. If the experience is that with the project supervisor I think even six years experience should work.
Okay.
Ma'am tell me the supervisor is different field like electrical engineer field but should we do it is she uh probably then in that case they right so that that I think will not help you in solving your problem will there may be a viva viva will also be done online right so you will be given certain questions for which you need to answer as a data analysis student what type of project should we work on or data as an analyst. You can do a lot of projects. You can uh you can do webstrapping. That's a very interesting area. You can uh get the data sourced by the different websites,
collect it, uh improve its quality,
right? These are the so many things that you can do. That's one one thing, right?
Data analyst projects could be many. Web scrapping is one of them. You can work around cloud um in real data streaming.
You can work around Apache Spark, right?
You can work on massive data sets and then uh analyze and analyze them in in a particular manner maybe based on the problem in hand. But data analysis is something that you can think of several other um interesting areas to work on.
Arin yes the UI designing is is also a project that you can take consider.
Okay.
Sample showing you a sample. I think uh that is a very very good idea. So let me try getting you a sample properly in the next session.
All right.
Okay. So there are so many questions that I still did not answer.
All right students. So I think uh it's a timer for even for the class. So I will take up your questions probably in the next class. Right. Uh meantime you can start searching for your uh all right so yeah so I'll take a few questions the next class all right thank you for joining in students