Major project live class 2 transcript containing instructions on how to do the major project

All right. So I hope my uh
presentation is also very visible. Thank
you Shami for greeting. Yes. Thank you
permar.
So this is uh in uh at the first session
at the first session you have taken an
introductory uh opening session and uh
it's very very important that we should
put entire of our energy and entire of
our attention to the making of the
project because we are dealing with the
major project and of course since you
are dealing with a major project you are
almost at the final uh final uh uh
circle of the completion of the program.
at the same point of time. So you are
acquainted with lot many areas in terms
of amateur university portal. Today we
would be focusing on those areas those
important areas those technical
important areas which uh which you need
the proper guidance for the evaluation
for the updation for the completion of
the project evaluation of the project.
We would be talking on that technical
part which is provided by the university
and let me tell you at the very very
beginning let me tell you these
informations are already available in
your Amigo account. I am sort of
reiterating and giving you the
emphasis on the importance of the
importance on the process of making your
project. All right that will be our main
uh main agenda for our understanding.
First of all, what is how to complete
the project? What is to be done within
the project? What what are the
evaluation pattern of the project and
how to uh complete the task of the
project? Because I think uh to to the to
the program understanding we are doing
it major project you are you are only
exposed to the major project once in the
in the program system and uh good marks.
I mean we we all wish you to articulate
maximum amount of the credit out of uh
uh attempting this particular course.
So uh let us begin with of course
general guideline I would be skipping uh
because we need to come to the project
the terms of the project. First of all,
let me tell you people that of course we
do carry the philosophical orientation
of the project but in many of the cases
it is uh it is a general apprehension
that the IT people or the tech people or
the science people does not go by the
philosophical orientation of the
research work but uh research itself
very much integrated with the
philosophical orientation.
uh first of all project uh project term
itself it's a it's a it's carrying a
temporary task definitely it is
temporary you would be doing it for 6
months of time or within this semester
only but let me tell you people that
project work is initiated by the
university system with the understanding
of the UGC guideline also to promote the
social welfare concept is definitely the
task we are doing within
within the project. It is heavily uh
technical in terms but the but the
orientation intention on doing the
project is uh deeply associated with the
social development and that is why
possibly possibly when you people are
picking up your topic your content which
is also part of the development of the
project work when you're picking up the
topic try to focus on the uh definitely
lot of lot of guideline come ups comes
in the line that what is the sellibility
of your project but also social
integration what is the social
integration of your project line that
should that also should be there. So to
start with the project work and in in
the uh in the meanwhile let me tell you
people that um you people are all
welcome to put your queries through the
chat uh chat uh box definitely I would
be taking them uh I would be taking all
of them. So uh so uh when we are talking
in the in the context of the context of
the system we are focusing on the areas
of uh of the process how to articulate
that entire project mode and uh uh the
the context that uh coming to the major
project there are in in this particular
section we have two of the section minor
project and major project. Coming to the
major project, it is mostly in terms of
the in terms of the skill or the
complexity. The most important part is
that how complex the level of the
complexity of the project is actually
differentiating. Other uh orientations
are also there. But the complex level of
the complexity you are dealing with that
is the main quality of your project. And
uh of course uh the duration major
project is also connected with the
duration what kind of what span of time
you people are
uh you people are investing in the in
the context of the major project. So it
is always the major project also when
you are submitting your report it should
also reflect some of the some of the
relationships with the stakeholders some
of the relationships with the
contributors you know you you write the
acknowledgement page as well. So what is
the significant contribution that you
are receiving during your major project?
Let me tell you people that each of your
page each of the pages of your report is
been considered. It has been it has been
evaluated. So instead of uh keeping all
the sections robotic, you people can
also integrate some of the sense into
into the process and it'll be more
enjoyable in that way. Of course we do
have our our occupants in our day in our
career in our daily lives but at the
same point of time uh it is also very
very um oriented with the person that
whatever you are doing at hands you
would be doing with the organization and
the project work is giving you that um
syllabus how to organize your ideas into
the physible uh into the feasible output
purpose of the project work which is
articulated by the university system as
well as integrated with the UGC system
that uh student should be provided with
the opportunity to synthesize knowledge
from uh various areas of perspectives
and its specialization. A lot of time I
would be picking up few of the FAQ also
here. A lot of time uh students approach
with this idea that what kind of topic
what kind of topic to be uh picked up in
our project in our major project and
also minor project. But since it is the
it is the area of the of the major
project. Uh first of all when we are uh
when we are coming to take this exposure
towards the critical understanding or
the complex not critical actually
critical is higher version complex
understanding complex means at the multi
level right you are you are uh you are
open to utilize number of variables you
are working with okay that is that is
complex that is not critical critical is
a different level than the complex so um
the First point is that yes the exposure
is given to you given to the students to
create something new. That is the first
thing and do let uh let me tell you do
let me share with you people many of the
project is have lot of industry uh merit
and those projects.
I think it it is very it is very uh uh
uh very obvious very common story to you
people now on uh that uh if you had gone
through the story the historical
background of the Facebook the
development of the Facebook it it came
it directly came out of university
project and not only Facebook actually
there are many many uh many uh business
platforms right now uh buzzing around
the world they came and they actually
came from the university project system,
university major project system. So yes,
it is there. The second point is that
university is offering you that
particular window where you can open
your ideas, you can open your uh uh
aspirations to create to to bring the
project work and at the same point of
time someone is taking admission. Okay.
At the same point of time we need to
focus on the criticality and creativity
which which is which is to be applied in
the real life situation. Again the
social concern is coming to the play. So
here another point is uh another point
is integrated with the with the UGC
concern with the university concern to
improve or replace
the uh replace the I would say improve
the knowledge background and uh
definitely update the knowledge
background. In fact the project work we
have submitted in our universities they
are the certificate used to be issued on
our name that saying that this uh pro
the result of this project work is now
the part of part of the existing
syllabus. So that is definitely that is
not the UG or PG uh project work that
used to take place from the PhD right.
So whenever uh a a scholar is uh
preparing the PhD report submitted it it
becomes the university knowledge system
and part of the syllabus also uh that is
that we call living syllabus the living
study line. So uh that is one of the
focus that uh purpose of the project
work from the university side. This is
this is what I am explaining you you
people that this is the purpose of the
project from the university side.
Definitely we uh we keta for your best
input into into this particular
platform. Little bit uh extended
understanding on the importance of the
work that is also uh the person.
Okay.
that is uh that is there to be
highlighted. Uh that is practical
applications of the theoretical
knowledge. Not it is project work is not
always bringing the theoretical
knowledge into the play. Uh because uh
practical applications or applications
can come out of another application
also. A project can be creating a
theoretical orientation which will be
quite complex in nature but uh that can
also be a project. You should be given
you know uh what I believe that students
should be given the highest horizon out
of which you you can choose you you are
open to choose the area. It is not that
always uh we we consume the uh we
consume the practical applications out
of the theoretical knowledge because
theory building theory it can be another
day lecture because it is a vast area
and very very interesting area. Uh
building a theory is actually working on
lot of application that can also be
done. It is not. It is very uh I would
say it is very valuentric representation
that theory is boring and application is
interesting. Um
have you people uh have you people
create uh just give me some yes or no.
Have you people ever created a theory?
I think majority will say no.
Have you people ever created a theory?
Any of you?
No. Kamal is saying no. No. Okay. Okay.
Series of no is coming. Series of no is
coming. Ria Puja uh
Shvakrram series of no is coming. Okay.
the the most most uh easy part is let me
tell you people I just have told you
people that I expect that most of the
reply will come to the come in no that
is a theory
that is a theory theory is this easy
theory making theory we are actually we
are making theory every day we are
making theory every day that is that is
the outlook we do not carry that is the
outlook we uh actually actually Um we do
not allow the students to carry
otherwise theory is fun. Theory is uh
theory is fun and we are making number
of theories every day in our life. Just
with the question I have asked you
people that whether you have made a
theory and I have given you a theory
that most of the qu answer would come
with no that is a theory. Generalizing
generalizing the human behavior is a
theory right. So see um to my
understanding to my belief that we do
make a lot of theories in our life lot
of theories uh if I am leaving by uh if
I'm leaving by 9:00 would I be able to
reach my university by 9:50 that is a
theory if I'm coming to the answer that
is a theory if I'm leaving my home at uh
8:58 and I wish to reach my university
by 8:45 is it possible possible theory
would say no the theory the the the wish
I am making whether it is situating
within my theory or not a lot of people
are sending request instead of uh
joining directly
let me take another uh pratik admit
right
so that is that is the context of query
once we are practically once we are
taking lot of task together once we are
uh doing a lot of things together. If we
come to a generalization definitely that
is we are creating the theory. So it is
not always that we are uh learning the
applications out of the theory we can
create the theory ourselves as well. So
this is that is why this is the right
stage where skills can be transformed
into performance and uh learn detailed
operations of a particular
particular industry uh particle
particular uh knowledge particle
particular information particle
particle. Now uh let me tell you people
that transforming knowledge into trans
sorry transforming information into
knowledge system is also kind of a
practice of theory. Another part is that
transforming data into information data
you you would be very uh uh commonly uh
since it is the group of IT students IT
scholars you would be uh dealing with
lot of data data oriented aspects in
your research terms and once you are
transforming this data into the
information you're actually practicing
the theoretical orientation. So these
are the these are the significance these
are the university significance of the
project work which is been circulated
which has been uh which has been made
palatable to the to the students to the
scholars.
Most of the time you would be uh
receiving this idea that the real world
problem of an organization or it's uh uh
or its competitors could be a world um
away from each other and could be uh
totally different from uh what is being
taught in the classroom. Most of the
time we are very passionate about the
real world problem. uh forgetting the
aspects uh forgetting the aspects of uh
the um the learning is the the task you
are taking in your hand is also a real
world real world situation. We are all
living in a real world situation. So we
do not need to create a cyber real world
a virtual real world and then get into
it and then picking up of our topic.
Yes. One note is there uh from the ka
okay and I have graphic designer as my
project guide for okay project guide I
will come to the point of the project
guide ka in a detail that is why I'm
telling you today I will be giving you
the in uh the entire university
structure of doing uh doing this
particular project okay definitely this
is a good question this is a good
concern and this is a very common
concern also popular concept very highly
popular. So definitely we would be yes
I am sorry I'm keeping you on mute. Uh
all right if you wanted to say something
uh cutting the background noise you can
speak there is no problem you can speak
everyone everyone is open to speak in
this particular uh session
so admit
so uh these are few of the university
point that I wanted to get it clear now
we are entering uh yes thank you uh now
we are entering into the uh technical
guidelines that is already structured
for the major project I would be talking
in terms of the major project structure
what are what is the structure what is
the parameter and of course the concern
of the guide will come to the play ma'am
for the project is it okay is it okay if
if if
we focus maybe if I focus on one main
functionality or is a more complex
project expected yes that is uh the
Adjit. Okay. Adit Suresh. Adjit. Yes,
that is also a very good question. Um,
for project again definitely I have
given you the idea that major project
deals with the complexity of the topic.
But again for project for the scholarly
projects you are not working uh you are
not working for the paid project system.
It is not research uh institution
central government research institution
or intense research institution. So
definitely one single focus can be
taken. Definitely. And the main part
what I want you people to instill your
mind that you are the owner of your
project. You are the owner. You are the
decision maker. Only what is uh what is
um uh evaluated. When we come to
evaluate your project, what only what is
evaluated that your rationality, what is
the rationality behind your project you
are placing? What causation, what logic
you're placing with with the idea. But
yes, your question uh will also be
addressed how to how to bring the how to
bring the how to deal with the
complexity of the project. I will also
come to the play how to pick up your
topic also. What kind of project should
be should be I am student of BCA data
analytics. Yes, Rajat. Yes, Rajat.
The easiest part I would be telling you
the easiest part to pick up your topic
and that is the rational that I'll give
you the rationality also. Coming to this
uh project submission and thank you for
all your questions. These are very good
questions, very good concern that you
are displaying.
uh the main uh let us begin with the
project framework that we need to work
with. First is the project uh we should
not start with the project submission.
It is actually goal of the project
right. But project submission is divided
into two part. Project summary uh
project summary or you people can call
it an extended abstract because of its
uh length. Uh it will be coming around
uh almost around it can go up till 1,000
words. It can go up till 1,000 words. So
it is a major amount of writing. So
first point is that project summary.
need to create the project summary but
we are not beginning with the project
summary. Second one is the project guide
rumé. Here I think uh here we have
received one of the one of the query in
this part that how to how to uh uh
select for the project guide. Major
project guide. Yes, major project guide
is a matter is a serious concern. So you
have to uh upload you have the you have
the uh window to upload your project
guide resume that means you are supposed
to connect with a project guide. How to
do it? Let us come to this question.
Yes. S is writing ma'am how do you
choose a project topic? Can we confirm
our project topic before starting?
Wonderful. Yes we can. You can confirm
with your button. Do not put it on the
uh for everyone. Do not put it your
project topic on the chat box. Sometimes
we receive uh u sometimes we receive lot
of regret words that oh ma'am I have
taken this project but my project idea
has been hijacked. So yes we do we do uh
care for the senses of the copyright
also because I always I put lot of
integration on the final year students
project because uh not few times many a
times their potential of their uh of
their first publication of their first
publication. So copyright is very
important. Do not write your project
ideas in the chat box. Okay. All right.
Uh
Raj uh uh Rajeswani Tjeshwini sorry so
many people are writing so your write up
is going through the trail. What kind of
project topic should I take as I am
student of BC software engine? Yes I'll
come to this. Uh Rajat is writing I
completed the project what to do next? I
completed the project what to do next
then and where and how to generate
plagiarism report of my project? Yes,
plagiarism is another certainly very
important topic. Plagiarism report of my
project my project on data analytics
with very less code that it is in Java
that code is added project with output
results. Yes. Okay. I get your I get
your concern. Um yes is writing I just
wanted to ask about my project where uh
I am uh where I'm using Python for data
analysis and uh PowerBI for the
dashboard with finance database from the
knowledge. I just wanted to check if
this is okay as per my data analytics
specialization and uh and if I'm going
in the right direction. Absolutely. uh
yes again I'm mentioning you do not do
not share the detail of your project uh
paper sometimes it is getting copied and
uh then it is coming into the plagiarism
also so it's better plagiarism report
catches all the all the um soft copies
also so do not uh share the direct topic
but definitely people can talk about the
topics uh broader topics what kind of
project should I be uh uh Okay. The the
the first uh concern is coming up in the
chat box that what kind of topic the
easiest part let me tell you the easiest
part. You do have uh you do have uh
access to Amigo account. Yes or no? You
do have access to Amigo account. Yes or
no?
Faster. Yes or no? Everyone everyone
does have the access to the Amigo
account. Right. Go through your courses.
You have the next step is next step is
go through your courses. List of the
courses. Go through your list of the
courses and those list of the courses.
All those courses each of the course
each of the courses does have the five
module. Five module the name of the five
modules are actually the broader area
any from any of the course. The name of
the five broader module areas are
actually the potential topic official
officially potential topic of your uh of
your uh project uh head of your project
area. Isn't it easy? This is the first
thing. Now let me give you the
rationality behind it. Why I'm giving
you such an easy way out. It is not it
is not lucrative that it is easy but the
point is that it is feasible and it is
technically integrated you are given and
another part if you wanted to extend
your idea another part is that you have
the syllabus you have the courses list
of the courses in your uh final uh term
you have the previous list of the
courses you can bring any of the module
topic Or even if you go through the
complexities uh earlier someone was
asking for the level of the complexity
if you wanted to go through the higher
complexity you can go through the uh
subsections of the module name of the
module concern that is the first
guideline that is the first suggestion
it is not even guideline this is a
suggestion and the suggestion is how it
is integrated what is the rationality
the rationality is that the first uh in
the in the pre previous slide I have uh
to uh I have shown you people that you
are extending your idea of application
based on the knowledge you have received
that is the rationality of your work you
can pick up easily any of the subtopic
from your courses running courses and
that is applicable for the IT people for
the BCA people for the BBA people all
these all these different area and not
only IT BCA BBA and so the other other
areas the social science areas I would
say that it is the best way to address
all the university students
because even the guideline even the UGC
guideline focuses on this area that how
much you are efficient when and it does
have a very important applicability in
your CV writing also once you writing
your CV you would be writing few of the
few of the specializations Right? Few of
the skill development you would be
integrating these information once you
are you would be showing that taking
this particular course taking that
particular course I'm not taking the
name because it is a mixed uh uh group
taking this particular course I have
made this project that is the best
strength that would be the highest
strength of your CV immediately the the
immediately the uh skill hunters would
focus on this area because those are
also you know those also work on the
algorithm once you are putting your CV
into the carrier orientation that you
have completed this theoretical course
and you have created this application it
is the best match for your CV writing as
well so that is why I'm promoting I'm
trying to promote this idea I'm trying
to promote this trait that once you are
coming into the uh into uh confusion
that what should be my unique topic? No,
don't go for the unique topic. Research
topic. Again, I'm giving you a little
bit of philosophical orientation here.
The term research itself is focusing a
repetition in the search. So, you don't
need to be unique in terms of picking up
the topic. It is not even not working on
Instagram that you need to create
something very catchy, very unique,
something very new. That is not the
case. Research, you are repeating the
search. Okay, you are repeating the
search. So you are working when you are
doing the major project, you are working
on a research pattern, research basis.
And that means you are working on the
existing document. It is already
existing. Some of the uh let us take
some of the uh text now. Ma'am, can I
finally
can a family doctor be my uh project
supervisor? Okay, I'll come to the
supervisor topic uh uh afterwards. Yes.
Uh Deji
uh is writing is it necessary to do code
type project or theory based project
will also work both as I mentioned you
that both does have their own strength.
Making theory is a very good idea. Uh
coding is also very good idea very good
idea. You can equally there there will
not be any leniency in your scoring
system while you are picking up the
coding or while you are picking up the
theoretical orientation. I am assuring
you on this part there will not be
leniency in scoring your task on this
basis. You can pick up any of this.
Another uh another is uh can I do
project outside of my specialization? So
I so can I do any topic outside of
module I studied about okay okay Mina
that is also yes that is also
appreciable I'm not uh I'm not declining
the idea that you cannot go beyond the
syllabus orientation I have just given
you people the orientation and I have
given you people the rationality behind
choosing the uh choosing the topic which
is uh which is uh connected ated with
your study and I have given you uh the
the reason why I am promoting this idea.
Of course you can go beyond. Of course
you can go beyond that. I started with
this presentation that university is
giving you the exposure.
You are the owner of your project work
and always I would request all of you I
would request all the students here
uh uh protect your project because this
is something unique you are going to
create and of course it will be it will
it will be the unique one because we are
dealing with this nitty-gritty from I
mean I am doing it from my past 20 years
more than that uh more than 20 years I'm
working into the development of the
research uh programs, development of the
research h process and um the content
you people are creating uh these are
coming to the play in unique way that is
also matter of learning uh through the
context of plagiarism. You should be
taking one whole lecture on the on the
context of the plagiarism. How should I?
is I'm I'm told that it is a research.
Research means I'm searching something
which is already existing. So I'm
writing on this. Then how do I protect
my work from the plagiarism is a matter
of skill. It is not the it is not that
you are um waking up uh waking up from
your sleep coming up with a new idea.
know plagiarism is very technical very
technical in in uh in its dealing very
technical skill that you should learn.
Okay. Now that was the that was the
uh that was the discussion we had on the
picking of the content. I have cleared
two of the points. People can take your
content from the existing syllabus from
the previous syllabus as well as outside
the syllabus. I think your answer I have
clear cleared your question right
cleared your comments al concern also.
Now coming to the uh second concern this
is also very very popular concern of
your term that the guide how to um how
to bring the context of the guide one
important content here I need to mention
I'm sorry taking your time viva question
every single project every single major
project not only major major minor all
the projects are coming with the viva
and viva section of the viva is
mandatory lot of time I also receive the
question whether we can vibers the va
question. No, viva question is the
mandatory part and you you are supposed
to complete the entire section of the
viva in most of the cases in most of the
cases um you would be receiving five
question five subjective questions in
terms of viva and all the aspects are to
be completed within uh uh uh within the
structure given for attempting the viva
uh again in detail we can we can attend
to the questions from the viva. Now
coming to the construction of the
project a little bit a little bit
construction of the project the extended
abstract should be uh essence of the
following uh following aspects following
points uh the submit the extended
abstract project work in uh it has been
extended 300 I was talking that up till
uh 1,000 it is in your case it has been
extended to 3,000 to 5,000 words because
the matter of your uh matter of your
project the actual project the final
project is almost uh exceeding almost
getting a cap of 30,000 words. So in
that case uh 3,000 3,000 word has been
taken for the abstract writing. Abstract
writing abstract in the university
system actually starts from 500 words
to,000 words in in uh our uh PhD
synopsis we used to call it,000 words uh
thousand words uh report. So yes,
extended abstract is there and uh 300
from 3,000 to 5,000 word is the capping
area and of course abstract is an
overview or a brief summary of the
project keeping keeping certain areas
fixed that is introduction uh the
research question what research topic
the research subject that you are about
to do about to identify about to address
and then method of your research and
with the findings of your research. So
these four sections are very very
important while you're writing the
abstract. Okay. The uh
uh the study of the hypothesis null
hypothesis these are the part of uh the
technical as well as non-technical
research. So it is subjective. You may
or you may not opt for this parts this
particular part. So this is about a
little bit of extended abstract and uh
uh as I have mentioned that uh the
introduction part, the research equation
part, uh research uh literature review
and research methodology. These are few
of the highlighted area that should be
there in the in the context of writing
the extended abstract. And of course
findings finding is very very important
while you are uh uh while you are
addressing the context. Um research
methodology research methodology is also
very very important part.
Now uh apart from uh again I am quite
flooded with uh with the chat box. Uh
Mohammad is writing ma'am is there any
deadline to first submit the abstract
separately? No. No, the the good news is
no. It is one single deadline you have.
You are dead for once. So it is I I'm
really really uh into the into the
changing of this phrase. It should be
timeline. It should be completion date
or something. Uh yes, the last
submission date is one single date and
it is fixed within that you people can
submit all of your all of your task.
Sonu Raat. Sonu Raat is uh making a
quick question for those of us pursuing
BCA with specialization in data
analytics or cloud uh cloud and
security. Is it mandatory to choose a
project topic related to our
specialization? No. No, it is not
mandatory. So it is not mandatory. You
people are open to choose your topic.
But it would be easy for you to pick up
a topic which is related to your
specialization to related to your
subject line. It will be feasible. It
will be quite reasonable for you people
to bring most best of your effort in
lesser amount of time. But of course you
are free to move beyond the boundaries
given to you through the syllabus.
All right. uh uh I think if I uh if I uh
communicate with you people that will be
more helpful for your understanding.
Rajat is again writing. Is it Rajata?
Rajat is again writing. So can you tell
me uh am I completed my project correct
mana? What about name? What about name
and designation of the project guide?
Yes project guide. Rajat, you are asking
for the project guide for many times. I
have I keep it in my mind. I'll
definitely address your query. Uh
when is the deadline to submit the
project
go through calendar? It is it is fixed
for all the it is fixed for all the
members. Uh
let me let me answer you from my memory
to my understanding. I think June June
is the month that you people are taking
your uh end of the June almost end of
the June you people are going to take
your examination
again it's it's a overall overall
calendar I'm talking about and uh that
that brings you the idea that
May I think May 30 would be the last
line last date for your project
submission but do check it with the
calendar the the best information will
be there in the amigo line. Dish is
writing ma'am uh how I get professor
Gmail of our college how I get professor
Gmail of our college like my Gmail is
with you I don't think so um connecting
if I think you wanted to connect how how
I get professor Gmail of our college
okay if you wanted to connect with your
professors if you wanted to connect with
the resource person use the Uh yes
contact use the ask your professor use
the portal ask your professor that is
the best platform because your query is
also registered and your teacher is
coming very methodically we I am also
I'm very happy to receive all my mails
all my communication through my ask your
professor portal I can sit with every
day I do it also I sit with ask your
professor portal for good span of time
and I read their queries I reply that to
them, right? That will be the best part
because your query is also formally
notified to your professor and your
professor is also giving you the best
output, the best suggestions available
in the whole amigo. Checking the whole
amigo. You can do that and you are all
you are all always very very welcome to
write to us. Say is writing ma'am uh can
we ask about our crowd topic and
confirming? Yes, absolutely s that would
be the smartest idea that uh you can put
your uh topic into the ask your
professor for your confirmation. But
yes, the point is that in the case of
major major uh major work the uh the
major project is also uh very equipped
with your guide. So instead of taking
the confirmation from the resource
person in in an university you can
discuss and I would suggest you people
to give it a discussion of length with
your guide and take the take the consent
from the guide that whether we can go
for the go for this topic. I have given
you two of the area how to choose your
topic. Now I think you people can reduce
down the task of your confirmation. You
don't need officially uh officially it
is not embedded that you need a
confirmation from the resource person
from your uh from your course uh
resource person to uh to go for the
topic. You can choose your topic and
this topic is already confirmed if it is
coming from the from the context of your
syllabus. And if you wanted to go beyond
the syllabus, you need to keep a
relevance definitely. I think everyone
is rational enough for that. You would
be and I'm I'm I I strongly believe that
you would be taking the relevance of
your topic with your courses you people
are taking up right um can we take a
guide of six or seven years experience?
Uh he is 10 years it is. I'm sorry. I'm
sorry it is mentioned the 10 years
parameter and actually 10 years is the
minimum you see 10 years is the minimum
you can go beyond 10 years but 10 years
is the minimum yes has already written
for you as well so wonderful project
summary project guide resume wonderful
you people are giving the list
plagiarism report project report
plagiarism report all of these should be
submitted together ma'am no uh it is not
required h all of a at a time you have
to submit no because uh you can do it
step by step you can have you can take a
little bit of gap in between also
because whatever you are submitting it
will be there it will be in the
repository okay so and be very careful
while you are doing the plagiarism
plagiarism will be taking another
another entire time uh very careful
while taking the plagiarism report to
take to get the task task uh removed
from the repository also because until
unless you are not re deleting the task
from the repository your next line
plagiarism report will show very high
content of the plagiarized uh uh okay
how to get this plagiarism report um
plagiarism report does have not many
software and let me tell you people
since I'm working uh in the research
platform more than I mean that will
extend to my teaching area also because
I have completed my PhD then entered
into the teaching area. So it is like 20
20 22 23 years in the research time
plagiarism report is very very sensitive
case. We can right now we are at a
position that even by simple reading we
can say whether the content is
plagiarized or not. Right. So uh and you
know that uh very sophisticated
plagiarism system online plagiarism
system is now available uh which you
people can create take the help someone
is asking for admit now in the 47 my god
all right so uh yes some of the
plagiarism software if you're looking
for some of the plagiarism uh platform
definitely u I would request the
resource person to give you the give you
the coverage on the plagiarism platform.
You people can use it. There are many
actually. Turn it in what I what I
prefer to use uh personally for my
research work because turn it in helps
me identify the maximum amount of the
plagiarism. I do use it for myself and
for my students also. Uh what do if
someone don't have a guide? No kamal
this is compulsory. Uh we need to go for
the guide. Let me tell you the
step-by-step idea how to how to uh uh
how to approach to a guide. It is a very
easy process. Again, it is a very easy
process. Uh make your uh short uh make
your short uh content of uh your
proposal that is your research proposal.
Make a short research proposal not more
than 60 words not more than 60 words.
You can use the use the help of the
generative AI in this manner. In this
case, take a 60 words short research
proposal circulate through your LinkedIn
or Academia profile whichever you people
are uh utilizing. If you are not using
if you do not have any account in
LinkedIn or academia edu I would uh
request you people to have one because
it will not only help you in the
research it will help you in the career
also. uh we do have two of the profile
you know one is social profile one is
the professional profile once you are
into the professional profile definitely
uh it'll it'll help you and uh through
the LinkedIn profile in most of the
cases through the LinkedIn profile you
will have received ample amount of the
ample amount of the uh reply again one
single trick one single reminder do not
flash it on the general general
platform. Okay. Do not flash it on the
general platform. Send them uh
individual request to your guides or
whoever you wish to wish to uh pick up
as your guides.
uh S is again writing ma'am how do we
get maximum possible uh marks in the
project side the best part is that it is
a concern it is a good concern how to
catch the maximum amount of the score in
the course to focus on the structure
that is why I was I was trying to give
you this this uh this would be the major
system of your structure research
methodology constitutes what is the
structure of your paper is actually the
best output that you people can create.
Focus the structure and it is given in
the AMGO portal. Focus the structure.
Project guide. Yeah, this is project
guide qualification. I think they
usually got a all the all the all the
members were looking for it. Project
guide must be uh postgraduate with a
minimum of 10 years of experience. I
cannot deviate from this idea. You
people need to focus on this part but
one possible orientation what I have
shared send them request
profile and you will get good answers
good response you will get because I we
also I mean from the other universities
we also receive such request
right can I uh can a family doctor be my
project supervisor in can a family
doctor uh how would you justify the the
profession with your topic that depends.
Other than that post-graduate we would
focus technically we would focus on
postgraduate and um 10 years experience.
So doctor has to be MD not MBBS. MBBS
doctor is not postgrad that is
graduation only. Okay. So postgraduate
and 10 years of the experience that is
mandatory there. I cannot make any
changes in that part.
is writing if the guide has the same uh
specialization then five six years of
experience will also be accountable.
Ma'am had said this in the previous
class. Uh that can be taken as a
consideration reish but falling into the
terms of consideration let us first try
for the 10 years uh matter and
then you can you can uh look for the
consideration part as well. Uh my uncle
is a software engineer also has working
in his own company has more than 10
years. Wonderful, wonderful, absolutely
Mohammed. Absolutely. 10 years and uh
and the PG degree wise PG because you
are also submitting his or her resume,
right? So 10 years uh experience and PG
degree, right? If the project guide has
an experience of six years but what's
latest technology is based on
seera same simra your your query your
concern is almost the same with say h
that what is the consideration given the
infrastructure the guideline has given
you the idea that the person who is
guiding you is holding the post-graduate
and 10 years of experience of the work
experience minimum you It is written in
minimum. So first you go for who is
holding 10 years because it is not
possible that in our lifetime we do not
have anyone around us who is holding
more than 10 years. It is very easy. Let
me tell you people it is very easy. But
yes if you think that the integration of
your subject integration of your subject
is getting greater extent definitely you
can approach for a consideration. You
see nothing is bringing you at the end
of the world. Nothing is something like
that. All right. Graphic designer
experience more than 30 years for BCA as
guide is okay. 30 years. My god. How
would I say no? Because I am only
holding the experience of 20 years. Yes.
Yes. Krampa. Uh definitely you can take
30 years. I mean once it is said 10
years definitely 30 years is not a
confusion. Right.
Submission time need only guide.
Submission time need only guide rumé or
also certificate. Guide resume guide is
uh for the update for the upload. You
have a different portal for uploading
the resume of the guide right that is
that is there certificate you can
integrate in your major major project
report that you people can integrate.
Wonderful. People have so many
questions, so many queries. I would take
them. I would try to take them all. Uh
permer Palmer is writing but it is going
upward. If if when someone doesn't have
a guide still we can go ahead
little uh very exceptional situation
karma. First of all, I would suggest you
to find look for the guide
make uh make a number of communications
so that you can also uh site
the communications that you have made
effort and yes guide ré is guide
consultancy is very very mandatory
highly mandatory in the in the
submission of this particular
uh project. Uh uh Zeba Zeba is asking is
guide important absolutely dear guide is
important I'm not getting any Zeba I
have given you one of the one of the uh
platform I have suggested one of the
platform go through LinkedIn first all
of you people please take my request go
create a uh create a proposal of 60
words 60 60 right create a proposal of
50 to 60 words and post it through your
LinkedIn account looking for your guide
requesting for your guide and do let us
know that if you are not getting any
reply let believe me you will be getting
a reply and that is how the uh
university system is also been created.
It is not it is not our choice. It is it
is the university system that we are
following. Okay. It is absolutely let me
tell you people it is not our choice. It
is the university system that we need to
maintain in terms of showing the
transparency in the examination system
also. Right. There are a lot of
documentation which cannot be
uh which cannot be go beyond the
parameters. Ma'am how viv will happen?
Viva call. No. Yes. Viva is not a call
based communication. It is a written
communication. Viva question will only
appear. Now let me tell you someone also
asked that whether we have to upload
everything at a at a one go. No viva
question will only appear when you will
complete all your submissions. Viva
question will only appear to your amigo
account or the section will get
activated when you will be completing
all your submissions. So the uh the
plagiarism report, the guides, resume
and abstract, extended abstract and the
final report. Four of the checks points
you are completing. Then only your viva.
The fifth point is opening on your
screen. Wasim is writing for the first
time. I think wasim is writing what are
the questions that will be asked in WA.
Okay. Okay. This is also a concern. But
let me tell you people the the smartness
of the question is this. The questions
will be asked on your
subject topic right the question will be
asked on the subject topic that what are
the I'm giving you one example that what
are the challenges you have found right
what are the challenges you have found
in data collection so you have to put
your answer and that will no way be
similar with the other people right so
this kind of integrated subjective
questions will be given to you and also
this uh setup of questions is uh with
lot of variables they will come with lot
of variables mostly it is regarded
mostly if you wanted to get a guideline
into this and get a hunch into this
mostly in terms of the theory uh
research method you are utilizing mostly
in terms of the tools you people are
using mostly in terms of the results you
are getting the finding maybe the
questions can come to you on the finding
ings of your task, right? So, it will be
highly integrative to your particular
topic uh in the viva question. Each of
the question will be carrying six marks.
So, you have ample amount of options to
write them to answer them. All right?
So, six marks, five question that is 30
points. Six marks, five question that is
30 marks. Try to provide since it is six
point questions. six marks question try
to provide five to six pointers in each
of the answer that will also get a a
very high opportunity for good score.
You people were asking for the score how
to score better try to answer pointwise
bullet point wise try to answer if
possible in your case. Wow, more
questions, more lot of questions. Uh,
some of the different name I should
take. Adish. Uh, Adish ma'am. Uh, does
the guide need to be from the same
field? No, no, no, not at all. I'm
planning a web app. Okay. But might only
find an Android developer. Is that okay?
Yes. Is that it is okay if the guide is
giving you the consent. Okay. There's no
problem. There's no problem. Kappo is
writing, can I have any uh project
certificate signed under
gual
declaration is fine. Uh declaration is
fine. Declaration is absolutely fine.
Um Risha was like writing I lost two
mentors in the process of uh asking them
for short sign certificates because they
are not ready for give signatures of the
personal certificate only ready for the
resume. Now a clear certificate is not
mandatory.
Am I right? Certificate
signed by this uh they have they have
rejected to sign the certificate. Why?
Why that will happen?
Risha try to choose your guide from the
from the formal orientation from a
formal organization so that they can
give you the clarity into your uh into
the concept because guide concept is
very important. Why they would say no
and uh they would covertly guide it
guiding you that is that is not needed.
I mean that complexity is not needed.
Right? So uh again John
Sorov sor is the new new name here. Uh
let us take sort of question. Can we
make a quid from manufacturing sector if
he is
quit guide? Sorry guide. Okay. Can we
can we take can we select? Okay. Can we
select a guide from our guide? No. Can
we select uh my guide from manufacturing
sector if he is not full-time involved
or analytics but has a PG in deterren?
Wonderful. Wonderful. Yes sir. You can
go. You can go with this. All right. See
individually. Individually you people do
not need to be concerned individually.
Don't put the individual concern. Guide
can be from aa. Okay. If it is a
confusion to you people that guide has
to be from the same field. No. No. Not
at all. Check the check the parameter we
have posted. Postgraduate. postgraduate.
Now I cannot give you the extent that
you are doing your uh uh you are doing
your um project in the IT sector and you
have taken your guide in from the
journalism sector. No, I am not
promoting this idea but this point is
actually giving you the venue. This
point is giving you the opportunity that
you can go for the cross um uh academic
section. You can again I'm mentioning
you people you people can go cross
academic sectors there's no point there
is no bar on that the person is holding
postgraduate the person is holding
minimum 10 years of of the years of the
experience okay now
take do do a project I mean it is not
feasible for you people if someone is
doing a project in music and the guide
is from the history background that can
be integrated that can formally
integrated. No problem in that. So some
few of the common queries in the chat
box I'm generalizing them for all of
you. Any field you people choose, any
field you people choose because it is
not blocked by the university. You
people can say it is not blocked by the
university. You people can choose anyone
from the postgraduation category and 10
years of experiences. So little bit you
people are writing very decently that
you are only deviating from your area
your specialized area to to the annexed
area that is absolutely fine that is
absolutely okay. Uh prajar prajkar is
writing bonafide requires guide sign and
there is any specific format. Yes format
is already given in your amigo account.
Uh if it is not visible to you, you can
let uh you can let us know through the
ask your professor. It is it is given in
the Amigo format. Amigo account. Uh uh
Mud Raj Mutur. Okay. Mutaj Mutur Raj is
writing. Hi ma'am. I want to do
something in geopolitical
uh context. Can I do it in geopolitical
context? You wanted to do wonderful.
Okay. uh from from the people from
social science background would be very
uh very much um uh very much
happy to know that but try to keep it
framed within the within the broader
topic of your area. Do not get detached
from the program you are doing. Okay,
that is that is my point. geopolitical
yes you can you can utilize that
the the there are huge amount of right
now huge amount of uh work is going
through the uh context of AI and the war
conflict AI and the war conflict lot of
people are working on that area but yes
uh do take a topic which you could
articulate the meaning and uh go for go
for the uh amount of the right
information Right information is also
very very important in the in the
research world. Okay. All right.
Okay. You're working in that field.
Wonderful. Go ahead. Uh D Praash D
Praash is writing kindly confirm if my
understanding is correct. We need to get
the guide consent signature in our
project. Yes. Yes, I'm confirming. Yes,
it is needed. Upload the abstract along
with the guide rumé. Yes. Second point
is yes. Details in the amigo portal. Get
it approved. Get it approved. Then start
the major project approval. Uh to my
understanding approval is not mandatory
with the guidance. Get it approved.
Approval is already academic uh
automatically coming when you are taking
the consent page. Right? Consent page is
uh the the important part in the in the
final project final report you are
submitting that is that is the consent
report.
So yes uh D praash I am confirming your
points. First point guide consent yes to
the guide consent. Second point is
upload the abstract. Yes upload you have
to upload the abstract. And uh third
point yes you have to upload the guide
ré guide ré in the amigo portal three
you have you have asked for the three of
the points which is yes last point get
it approved get it approved that is your
understanding with your guide okay that
is of of course uh it is the the
evidence of the approval is not taken
the consent is taken that uh the person
is guiding you the consent is taken
again I'm uh repeating approval of the
topic is not the mandatory portion. You
are taking the consent from your guide.
Ma'am, how do we write the research
aspects of the project for that? Uh say
I need another one hour. I was about to
tell you how to write the research
project but uh yes the major time has
been taken for the selection of the
guide and um the selection of the topic.
Definitely we are now left with four
other four other sessions. So I can talk
to you people with the length that how
the other sections can be addressed.
Okay. Then please let me know as we
submit step by step. Will it be
evaluated that way? If something is not
right, will we be informed? Uh okay
Mohammad
here uh you need a lot of clarity step
by step I would ask you I would tell you
people to I would suggest you people to
go through step by step something is not
right will give you the indication of
your viva the main window of the viva
will not open until and unless your
submission is not coming to the
completion and that is the thing that I
always suggest not to wait for the last
date of the submission. At least try to
submit your project 10 days prior to
your last date of submission. So that if
your viva uh portal is not clicking, if
your viva portal is not getting
activate, you do have a little window of
time to take care with the take care of
that issue with the support team because
you people also know that uh the
communication with the backend
communication takes some time and it is
since it is a matter of examination,
right? It is a matter of uh priority. It
is a very high priority matter. You
should be completing uh at least 10 days
prior. So that any any incompleteness in
your course can give you you should have
little bit of time to comply with the
completion. Other than that uh this is
the parameter. Once the vivor window is
open, you are done. You're you're safe,
right? You're safe. Um karma is last
writing. I'm taking this last quote.
Sorry because this is 8 minute uh uh
over the time we had ma'am for guide PG
is needed. Yes, for the guide or
graduation or the graduation will be
okay. No PG PG uh having 14 15 years of
experience. 14 15 years of experience is
okay per but PG PG degree is very very
important. What to submit first of all
before the submit final project report
there's no chronology uh Ravish the
reish sorry there's no chronology
reshuff uh you can uh upload the
abstract extended abstract at the first
position second the plagiarism report
third your final report uh of your
choice there's no chronology into it you
have to submit all the part and particle
then only your uh viva window will be
activated. Okay. In Manu from uh where
the guide will sign on certificate
he is in uh then take the digital uh
digital signature
go for the digital signature in that
case. Okay.
So yes uh I'm stopping the recording
also. I'm heavily sorry, heavyhearted.